10 Resource Management




10 Resource Management


10.1 Overview
The UBFM oversees a UB domain. It manages the interconnections, communication, and computing
resources for all Entities and ports within the UB domain. The UBFM also handles system operation
events dynamically. It identifies and schedules resources using each Entity's globally unique identifier
(GUID). Additionally, it manages the Entity Identifier (EID) of each Entity to enable direct access
between Entities based on EID.

When accessing the memory of the target Entity's owner UBPU, the initiator Entity carries the token
issued by the UBPU as the access credential. The target Entity then authenticates the transaction
request using this token. Under security controls, an Entity with Exclusive permission MAY efficiently
access target memory (such as UBPU memory or other Entities' resource space) by using only the
token ID as a credential. The UBFM assigns each Entity to a specified UB partition. Entity access is
isolated between UB partitions.

All functions or services specified by Entities can be treated as shared resources within the UB domain.
After the UBFM schedules and registers the resources, a UBPU can call the functions or services
specified by other Entities through the interfaces provided by its UB Controller. UB MAY support various
methods for calling remote functions or services, such as memory-mapped I/O (MMIO), message
communication, and unified remote procedure call (URPC). The UBPU MAY select a method that
matches the system environment.

UB defines a set of error handling and event notification mechanisms. When a device generates a local
event during operation, it sends a UB Signaled Interrupt (USI) or message to notify the corresponding
fault processing unit of event processing. For example, device running errors MAY be reported to the
UBFM through error messages; function call errors generated by an Entity MAY be reported to the
corresponding UBPU through interrupts; exceptions generated by a target Entity in handling memory
access requests MAY be reported to the initiator Entity through error codes or the Poison field carried in
response packets.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                           304
10 Resource Management



10.2 Basic Concepts

10.2.1 Protocol Components




                                      Figure 10-1 UB domain diagram

A UB domain—such as a SuperPoD or server—contains multiple UBPUs with diverse functions or
services. Within a UB domain, UBPUs can be connected in any topology and system resources can be
flexibly combined.

UB Controllers and UB Switches are different components that implement the UB protocol stack, and
are located at different topological positions in the system. UB Controllers are leaf nodes, while UB
Switches are non-leaf nodes. UB Switches provide routing services, are responsible for interconnecting
UB Controllers, and MAY connect additional UB Controllers via cascading. UB Controllers MAY enable
remote memory access and messaging for their local UBPU. They specify the local UBPU's functions or
services for other UBPUs to call. A UBPU MAY call other UBPUs' functions or services through the
interfaces provided by its own UB Controllers.

A single UBPU MAY contain multiple UB Controllers and UB Switches. Their quantities can be
customized as needed, with no restrictions from this specification. UBPUs MAY be interconnected by
the ports of the UB Controllers or UB Switches.

The UBFM serves as the administrator of a UB domain. It MAY discover and manage domain resources
through management commands, and dynamically process system operation events.

      1.   A large UB domain MAY include multiple UBFM instances, each of which MAY manage a
           part of the UB domain called a sub-domain. The scope of each sub-domain SHALL not
           overlap. All UBFM instances SHALL collaborate to implement UBFM functionalities. This
           specification does not define UBFM instance collaboration.
      2.   UBFM instance deployment SHALL be reliable and trustworthy. The implementation details
           are not defined in this specification.
      3.   In a server, the host system software MAY undertake the UBFM functionalities.

UB Controllers SHALL support the following capabilities on demand:

      1.   Receiving and responding to UBFM management commands
      2.   Synchronous or asynchronous remote memory access, messaging, and other services
      3.   Network layer routing mechanism
      4.   Pooling of memory, Entity, and other resources



unifiedbus.com                                                                                          305
10 Resource Management



      5.   Access isolation
      6.   Reset
      7.   Error handling
      8.   Interrupt
      9.   Virtualization
      10. Other vendor-defined functions

UB Switches SHALL support the following capabilities on demand:

      1.   Receiving and responding to UBFM management commands
      2.   Network layer routing mechanism
      3.   Access isolation
      4.   Reset
      5.   Error handling
      6.   Interrupt reporting
      7.   Other vendor-defined functions


10.2.2 Configuration Management Model




                            Figure 10-2 Configuration management model structure

UB Controllers and UB Switches use the same model structure. As shown in the figure, both UB
Controllers and UB Switches SHALL consist of at least one Entity and one port. Ports include physical
and virtual ports (vPorts), which are shared by all Entities in a model structure.

      1.   Entities in a model structure SHALL be numbered consecutively in ascending order, starting
           from 0. Specifically, N (≤ 65,536) Entities are numbered Entity 0, Entity 1,..., and Entity N–1.
           Entity 0 SHALL be mandatory.
      2.   Ports in a model structure SHALL be numbered consecutively in ascending order, starting
           from 0. Specifically, M (≤ 16,384) ports are numbered Port 0, Port 1,..., and Port M–1. Port 0
           SHALL be mandatory.

An Entity is the base unit for resource allocation in a UB Controller or UB Switch. It has configuration
and resource spaces for storing configuration and device information. Entity 0 manages the
configurations for other Entities and shared resources such as the network layer, data link layer, and




unifiedbus.com                                                                                           306
10 Resource Management



physical layer. The following figure provides a general view of the Entity configuration and resource
spaces.




                          Figure 10-3 Entity configuration and resource spaces

      1.   Each Entity has separate CFG0 and CFG1 spaces. Only the Entity 0 configuration space
           contains CFG0_PORT_BASIC, CFG0_PORT_CAP, and CFG0_ROUTE_TABLE.
      2.   Each Entity's resource space (if any) can be divided into a maximum of three parts.

Each Entity SHALL be assigned a GUID during production. Multiple Entities in a model structure can
specify different functions or services, which are described by the Class Code. Each Entity SHALL be
assigned an EID before use to identify it as a communication object.


10.2.3 Resource Management Model




                           Figure 10-4 Resource management model structure

For the purpose of communication resource management, the UBPU SHALL specify several
consecutive Entities as Management UB Entities (MUEs), starting with Entity 0. The number of Entities
depends on specific implementation.

MUEs offer shared resources like TP channels to other Entities in the same UBPU and provide
management interfaces for the shared resources. Other Entities in the UBPU can use these shared



unifiedbus.com                                                                                          307
10 Resource Management



resources but cannot manage them. In virtualization scenarios, Entities can be directly connected to
VMs. MUEs can host resources such as Jetty contexts for multiple Entities, minimizing the attack
surface of VMs.


10.3 Working Mechanism

10.3.1 Entity Access




                                          Figure 10-5 EID format

An EID contains 128 bits and has only one ID address space. System administrators SHALL decide
how to assign EID prefixes in a UB domain. This specification sets no restriction on prefix planning.
Each UB domain can occupy a sub-ID address space identified by a prefix. The UBFM plans and
configures EIDs for Entities within the domain in a trusted manner. Value 0 of the 20-bit EID is reserved
by the protocol and SHALL NOT be assigned. In practice, packets on UB links can carry full 128-bit
EIDs or shorter 20-bit EIDs, or not explicitly carry EIDs.

An Entity MAY aggregate multiple ports using one or more network addresses for communication.
Multiple Entities sharing physical ports MAY use the same network addresses. An EID assigned to an
Entity SHALL be bound to the network address corresponding to the Entity's topological location. If the
Entity is migrated, the EID SHALL be rebound to the network address of the new location. The binding
of an EID to a network address is not defined in this specification.




                                   Figure 10-6 Access between Entities

As illustrated in the figure above, before an Entity accesses another Entity, it SHALL obtain the target
Entity's EID, as well as the token and UBA of the target memory. Such information MAY be specified by



unifiedbus.com                                                                                          308
10 Resource Management



the upper-layer application or obtained in other ways. This specification does not define how to obtain
such information. For example, during memory access, the initiator Entity sends a request packet,
which SHALL carry the target Entity's EID (DEID), token, and UBA, as well as its own EID (SEID). Upon
receiving the packet, the target determines which Entity SHALL handle this request using the DEID.
The Entity then authenticates the access request with the packet's token to prevent unauthorized
access. Any Entity that has been granted an access credential by the target can access the target
memory. The access credential can be granted by the target directly or transferred by another Entity.


10.3.2 Entity Isolation
A UB partition is a group of Entities. Each Entity belongs to exactly one UB partition. Access between
Entities belonging to different UB partitions is blocked. UB partitions are identified by UB partition
identifiers (UPIs), which SHALL comply with the following rules:

      1.    UPIs SHALL support trusted configuration and anti-spoofing.
      2.    The default UPI of an Entity is 0.
      3.    Entities with a UPI of 0 cannot communicate with other Entities.
      4.    The sender adds a UPI to a packet before transmission. Upon reception, the receiver verifies
            the UPI. If the UPI does not match, the packet is discarded.
      5.    A UPI has either 15 bits or 24 bits, which MAY be selected on demand during
            communication. For details, see Appendix B.3.




                                Figure 10-7 Access isolation between Entities

In the preceding figure, Entity m and Entity n belong to the same UB partition 4. Entity n allows access
from Entity m but not from Entity a. Entity b belongs to another UB partition 2 and denies access from
Entity m.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                           309
10 Resource Management



10.3.3 Function Calls




                                 Figure 10-8 Function calls based on MMIO

As shown in the figure above, when Entity "a" is registered with a UBPU, the UBPU has certain
management permissions on Entity "a". The UBPU maps the resource space of Entity "a" to the MMIO
space in its memory address space, allowing the processor to call the functions or services specified by
Entity "a" by reading and writing the MMIO space. The UBPU can also grant the access credential to
Entity "b", so Entity "b" can read and write the resource space of Entity "a" through methods like DMA to
call the functions or services specified by Entity "a".




                               Figure 10-9 Function calls based on messages

As shown in the figure above, the UBPU has certain management permissions on Entity "a" when it
uses Entity "a". The UBPU sends commands to Entity "a" through the messaging interface on its local
UB Controller. Entity "a" then parses and executes the commands, allowing the UBPU to call the
functions or services specified by Entity "a". If the UB Controller supports URPC, the UBPU can call the
functions or services specified by Entity "a" using URPC. After the UBPU grants the access credential
to Entity "b", Entity "b" can call the functions or services specified by Entity "a" in the same way.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                          310
10 Resource Management



10.3.4 Interrupts

10.3.4.1 Interrupt Mechanism




                                     Figure 10-10 Interrupt mechanism

UB Controllers or UB Switches SHALL specify whether they support the interrupt function in their
configuration space registers. All their Entities SHALL consistently support or not support the interrupt
function. The interrupt function SHALL interface with the interrupt subsystem of the system platform.

The UB driver requests an interrupt from the interrupt management subsystem for an Entity and
delivers the interrupt configuration to the Entity. When reporting the interrupt, the Entity writes interrupt
information to the interrupt controller, and the controller calls back the interrupt management
subsystem. Then, the subsystem calls the UB driver to handle the interrupt.

UB Signaled Interrupts (USIs) generated by an Entity are sent based on Write-type transaction
semantics. The destination memory address in a USI message SHALL be consistent with the interrupt
address specified by the interrupt subsystem.

UB defines Type 1 and Type 2 interrupt implementation methods, and one of them SHALL be selected
in actual deployment.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                             311
10 Resource Management



10.3.4.2 Type 1 Interrupt Register
                           Table 10-1 Type 1 interrupt configuration register group
                                               Interrupt Enable
                                              Interrupt Number
                                          Interrupt Enable Number
                                                Interrupt Data
                                              Interrupt Address
                                                 Interrupt ID
                                                Interrupt Mask
                                              Interrupt Pending


The CFG1_CAP Bitmap register specifies whether the Entity supports Type 1 interrupts. If it does, the
Type 1 interrupt configuration register group, as illustrated in the table above, SHALL be implemented in
CFG1. For details, see Appendix D.4.3. The function of each register is as follows:

      1.   Interrupt Enable: controls whether to enable the interrupt function of the Entity, which is
           configured through software.
      2.   Interrupt Number: indicates the number of interrupt vectors supported by the Entity.
      3.   Interrupt Enable Number: holds the number of interrupt vectors enabled by the Entity, which
           is configured through software.
      4.   Interrupt Data: holds the start number of interrupt vectors, which is configured through
           software. USI messages sent by an Entity when reporting interrupts SHALL carry the
           corresponding interrupt vector numbers according to the following rules:
           (1) If one interrupt vector is enabled, the interrupt data reported by the Entity is X, where X
                 indicates the value configured in the Interrupt Data register.
           (2) If N interrupt vectors are enabled, the interrupt data reported by the Entity is [X, X + N –
                 1], with the values matching the sequence of the vectors. X indicates the value
                 configured in the Interrupt Data register.
      5.   Interrupt Address: holds the interrupt address assigned by the interrupt subsystem, which is
           configured through software. The interrupt information reported by an Entity SHALL be
           written to the memory indicated by this address. In a USI message sent by an Entity, UBA,
           DEID, and TokenID correspond to the values configured in the Interrupt Address register,
           CFG0's UEID register, and CFG1's DEV_TOKEN_ID register, respectively.
      6.   Interrupt ID: holds the interrupt ID assigned by the interrupt subsystem, which is configured
           through software. USI messages sent by an Entity when reporting interrupts SHALL carry the
           interrupt ID.
      7.   Interrupt Mask: controls whether to mask interrupt reporting of the Entity, which is configured
           through software. It holds 32 bits, each corresponding to an interrupt vector (bit 0 for interrupt




unifiedbus.com                                                                                           312
10 Resource Management



           vector 0, bit 1 for interrupt vector 1, and so on). When an interrupt vector is disabled, the
           corresponding bit in this register is meaningless.
      8.   Interrupt Pending: indicates the reporting status of interrupt vectors. It holds 32 bits, each
           corresponding to an interrupt vector (bit 0 for interrupt vector 0, bit 1 for interrupt vector 1,
           and so on). When an interrupt vector is disabled, the corresponding bit in this register is
           meaningless.


10.3.4.3 Type 2 Interrupt Register

Register Structure




                                   Figure 10-11 Type 2 register structure

As illustrated in the figure above, the Type 2 interrupt register consists of four parts. The interrupt
capability register group determines the start address and entry quantity of the interrupt vector table
and the interrupt address table. Each interrupt vector points to an interrupt address indexed by Address
Index. The interrupt pending table and the interrupt vector table are aligned bitwise, with each bit
indicating the reporting status of an interrupt vector.

Interrupt Capability Register Group

                            Table 10-2 Type 2 interrupt capability register group
                                       Max Index of Interrupt Address
                                       Max Index of Interrupt Vector
                                    Interrupt Vector Table Start Address
                                   Interrupt Address Table Start Address
                                   Interrupt Pending Table Start Address
                                                 Interrupt ID
                                               Interrupt Mask
                                               Interrupt Enable




unifiedbus.com                                                                                                 313
10 Resource Management



The CFG1_CAP Bitmap register specifies whether the Entity supports Type 2 interrupts. If it does, the
Type 2 interrupt capability register group as illustrated in the table above SHALL be implemented in
CFG1. For details, see Appendix D.4.4. The function of each register is as follows:

       1.   Max Index of Interrupt Address: indicates the maximum index of interrupt addresses. A
            maximum of M + 1 interrupt addresses can be configured for an Entity, where M indicates
            the value of this register.
       2.   Max Index of Interrupt Vector: indicates the maximum index of interrupt vectors. A maximum
            of N + 1 interrupt vectors can be configured for an Entity, where N indicates the value of this
            register. Interrupt vectors MAY share an interrupt address.
       3.   Interrupt Vector Table Start Address: indicates the start address of the interrupt vector table.
       4.   Interrupt Address Table Start Address: indicates the start address of the interrupt
            address table.
       5.   Interrupt Pending Table Start Address: indicates the start address of the interrupt
            pending table.
       6.   Interrupt ID: holds the interrupt ID assigned by the interrupt subsystem, which is configured
            through software. USI messages sent by an Entity when reporting interrupts SHALL carry the
            interrupt ID.
       7.   Interrupt Mask: controls whether to mask all interrupts reported by the Entity, which is
            configured through software.
       8.   Interrupt Enable: controls whether to enable the interrupt function of the Entity, which is
            configured through software.

Interrupt Address Table

                                  Table 10-3 Type 2 interrupt address table structure
                            Entry Structure
 Address Index
                            64 bits                   11 bits     1 bit    20 bits      128 bits   32 bits
 0                          Interrupt Address         RSVD        Valid    TokenID      DEID       RSVD
 1                          Interrupt Address         RSVD        Valid    TokenID      DEID       RSVD
 ...                        ...                       ...         ...      ...          ...        ...
 M                          Interrupt Address         RSVD        Valid    TokenID      DEID       RSVD


The interrupt address table is stored in the Entity's resource space 0, with each entry occupying 32
bytes and indexed by Address Index. The table above illustrates its structure. Its fields are defined as
follows:

       1.   Valid: indicates the validity of an entry, with 1 for valid and 0 for invalid.
       2.   DEID: indicates the ID of an interrupt handling node.
       3.   TokenID: indicates the access credential assigned by an interrupt handling node. USI
            messages sent by an Entity SHALL carry this credential.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                            314
10 Resource Management



       4.   Interrupt Address: indicates the interrupt address allocated by the interrupt subsystem, which
            is configured through software and used as the UBA in USI messages sent by an Entity.

The interrupt address table SHALL be updated through software in a 4-byte alignment manner. The
Valid field should be set to 0 before the update of other fields.

Interrupt Vector Table

                               Table 10-4 Type 2 interrupt vector table structure
                             Entry Structure
 Vector Index
                             32 bits                    15 bits        1 bit        16 bits
 0                           Interrupt Data             RSVD           Mask         Address Index
 1                           Interrupt Data             RSVD           Mask         Address Index
 ...                         ...                        ...            ...          ...
 N                           Interrupt Data             RSVD           Mask         Address Index


The interrupt vector table is stored in the Entity's resource space 0, with each entry occupying 8 bytes
and indexed by Vector Index. The table above illustrates its structure. Its fields are defined as follows:

       1.   Mask: indicates the interrupt masking status, with 1 for masked and 0 for unmasked.
       2.   Interrupt Data: indicates the interrupt vector number, which is configured through software.
            USI messages sent by an Entity when reporting interrupts SHALL carry the corresponding
            interrupt vector numbers.
       3.   Address Index: indicates the interrupt address index. Interrupt vectors MAY share an
            interrupt address index.

The interrupt vector table SHALL be updated through software in a 4-byte alignment manner. The Mask
field should be set to 1 before the update of other fields.

Interrupt Pending Table

The interrupt pending table is a bitmap stored in the Entity's resource space 0. Each bit of the interrupt
pending table sequentially corresponds to an entry in the interrupt vector table to indicate the pending
status of the corresponding interrupt. Value 1 indicates that an interrupt is in the pending state.

The interrupt pending state MAY be cleared through the following methods:

       1.   When an interrupt is unmasked through software configuration, the pending state is cleared
            after the Entity reports the interrupt.
       2.   The pending state is automatically cleared upon Entity reset.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                           315
10 Resource Management



10.3.4.4 Interrupt Messages

           Byte 0                     Byte 1                      Byte 2                Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                                                  Interrupt ID
                                                Interrupt Data
                                 Figure 10-12 PDU format of USI messages

Interrupt ID: identifies the Entity that reports interrupts, and is consistent with the value of the Interrupt
ID register in CFG1.

Interrupt Data: identifies the reported interrupt vector number. For details on how this field is generated,
see the interrupt register description in Sections 10.3.4.2 and 10.3.4.3.


10.3.5 Message Notification

10.3.5.1 Local Event Notification




                            Figure 10-13 Notification mechanism for local events

As shown in the figure above, when detecting a local error, an Entity can report it to the software using
one of the following queues, depending on the error type (see Section 10.6.2).

      1.   Completion queue (CQ)
           Entities report local class-A errors using CQs. They include error codes in CQEs to notify the
           software of transaction exceptions.
      2.   Event queue (EQ)
           Entities report local class-B errors using EQs. This method applies when the corresponding
           CQ cannot be found.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                              316
10 Resource Management



     3.   Error message queue
          Entity 0 SHALL report local class-C errors using error message queues. The reporting
          process is shown below.




                            Figure 10-14 Error message reporting process




unifiedbus.com                                                                                   317
10 Resource Management



10.3.5.2 Remote Event Notification




                                Figure 10-15 Remote event notification process

As shown in the figure above, when detecting an error, UB can transfer the error event to a
troubleshooting node using one of the following methods, depending on the error type.

      1.   Inline error
           (1) Response packets carrying error information
                 If an error occurs when a target is processing a transaction request, the target can
                 return a response packet with the Status field carrying the error information to notify the
                 initiator of the error.
           (2) Packets carrying poison indicators
                 The Poison field of the BTAH is used to indicate whether the data carried in a packet is
                 incorrect. Data marked as poison cannot be processed as normal data after reaching
                 the target.
      2.   Error message
           If a class-C error occurs, Entity 0 can send an error message to UBFM for handling.


10.4 Management Mechanism

10.4.1 Configuration Space

10.4.1.1 Access Control

A configuration space refers to a configuration management interface that an Entity opens to the UBFM
and UBPU authorized to use the Entity. It stores information such as device capabilities, status, and
configurations. The UBPU authorized to use an Entity is called a User, which also has certain
management permissions. The UBFM and User have different management permissions, as detailed
below:



unifiedbus.com                                                                                           318
10 Resource Management



      1.   CFG0: The UBFM has both read and write permissions, while a User has only the read
           permission.
           (1) If NTH.Mgmt of a management message is 1, the management command is sent by the
                 UBFM, which has both read and write permissions.
           (2) If NTH.Mgmt of a management message is 0, the management command is sent by a
                 User. In this case, when the message's UPI matches the Entity's UPI, the User has only
                 the read permission. If their UPIs do not match, the command is invalid.
      2.   CFG1: Both the UBFM and User have read and write permissions.
           (1) If NTH.Mgmt of a management message is 1, the management command is sent by the
                 UBFM, which has both read and write permissions.
           (2) If NTH.Mgmt of a management message is 0, the management command is sent by a
                 User. In this case, when the message's UPI matches the Entity's UPI, the User has both
                 read and write permissions. If their UPIs do not match, the command is invalid.


10.4.1.2 Access Mechanism

System software sends configuration space access requests through the local UB Controller (such as
the bus controller, as detailed in Appendix C.3.2). The remote UB Controller and UB Switch parse and
execute the configuration management commands, and return response messages. The local UB
Controller then forwards the response messages to the system software for processing.

The following figure illustrates the access mechanism. The system software can concurrently send
multiple access requests to the configuration space. Each request and its corresponding response are
mapped by an MSN. When receiving a response, the system software uses the MSN to identify the
matching access request.




                           Figure 10-16 Configuration space access mechanism




unifiedbus.com                                                                                      319
10 Resource Management



10.4.1.3 Configuration Space Structure




                                           Figure 10-17 Slice structure

The configuration space is divided into several slices, with highly correlated registers grouped into the
same slice. A slice consists of a header and a body. The header defines the version number and the
address space occupied by the slice. The body contains the slice's registers. The unit of the offset
address is 4 bytes. The ROUTE TABLE slice has a 1 GB address space, while other slices use a fixed
1 KB address space.

                                    Table 10-5 Slice header register definition
                  Bit                                                                 Start Offset   Default
 Field Name                        Description                            Attribute
                  Location                                                            Address        Value
 Slice Used       31:4             Address space actually occupied        RO          0x0            -
     Size                             by the slice, in the unit of 4
                                      bytes
 Slice Version    3:0              Slice version number                   RO          0x0            -


Offset addresses within the range of [X, 0xFF] or [X, 0xFFF_FFFF] (where X is Slice Used Size) are
undefined address spaces. Accessing these addresses returns all 0s.

                    Table 10-6 Address space definition of configuration space slices
 Category                    Start Address        End Address       CAP Name
 CFG0_BASIC                  0x0000_0000          0x0000_00FF       CFG0_BASIC
 CFG0_CAP                    0x0000_0100          0x0000_01FF       CFG0_CAP1_RSVD
                             0x0000_0200          0x0000_02FF       CFG0_CAP2_SHP
                             0x0000_0300          0x0000_03FF       CFG0_CAP3_
                                                                    DEVICE_ERR_RECORD
                             0x0000_0400          0x0000_04FF       CFG0_CAP4_ DEVICE_ERR_INFO
                             0x0000_0500          0x0000_05FF       CFG0_CAP5_ EMQ
                             ...                  ...
                             0x0000_FF00          0x0000_FFFF
 CFG1_BASIC                  0x0001_0000          0x0001_00FF       CFG1_BASIC
 CFG1_CAP                    0x0001_0100          0x0001_01FF       CFG1_CAP1_DECODER
                             0x0001_0200          0x0001_02FF       CFG1_CAP2_JETTY




unifiedbus.com                                                                                            320
10 Resource Management



 Category                Start Address   End Address   CAP Name
                         0x0001_0300     0x0001_03FF   CFG1_CAP3_INT_TYPE1
                         0x0001_0400     0x0001_04FF   CFG1_CAP4_INT_TYPE2
                         0x0001_0500     0x0001_05FF   CFG1_CAP5_RSVD
                         0x0001_0600     0x0001_06FF   CFG1_CAP6_UB_MEM
                         ...             ...
                         0x0001_FF00     0x0001_FFFF
 CFG0_PORT0_BASIC        0x0002_0000     0x0002_00FF   CFG0_PORT0_BASIC
 CFG0_PORT0_CAP          0x0002_0100     0x0002_01FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP1_LINK
                         0x0002_0200     0x0002_02FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP2_LINK_LOG
                         0x0002_0300     0x0002_03FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP3_RSVD
                         0x0002_0400     0x0002_04FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP4_DATA_RATE1
                         0x0002_0500     0x0002_05FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP5_DATA_RATE2
                         0x0002_0600     0x0002_06FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP6_DATA_RATE3
                         0x0002_0700     0x0002_07FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP7_DATA_RATE4
                         0x0002_0800     0x0002_08FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP8_DATA_RATE5
                         0x0002_0900     0x0002_09FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP9_DATA_RATE6
                         0x0002_0A00     0x0002_0AFF   CFG0_PORT_CAP10_DATA_RATE7
                         0x0002_0B00     0x0002_0BFF   CFG0_PORT_CAP11_DATA_RATE8
                         0x0002_0C00     0x0002_0CFF   CFG0_PORT_CAP12_DATA_RATE9
                         0x0002_0D00     0x0002_0DFF   CFG0_PORT_CAP13_RSVD
                         0x0002_0E00     0x0002_0EFF   CFG0_PORT_CAP14_EYE_MONITOR
                         0x0002_0F00     0x0002_0FFF   CFG0_PORT_CAP15_QDLWS
                         0x0002_1000     0x0002_10FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP16_SRIS
                         0x0002_1100     0x0002_11FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP17_RSVD
                         0x0002_1200     0x0002_12FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP18_LINK_PERF
                         0x0002_1300     0x0002_13FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP19_LINK_ERR_INJ
                                                       ECTION
                         0x0002_1400     0x0002_14FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP20_LTSM_ST
                         0x0002_1500     0x0002_15FF   CFG0_PORT_CAP21_PORT_ERR_RE
                                                       CORD
                         ...             ...
                         0x0002_FF00     0x0002_FFFF
 CFG0_PORT1_BASIC        0x0003_0000     0x0003_00FF   CFG0_PORT1_BASIC




unifiedbus.com                                                                      321
10 Resource Management



 Category                      Start Address       End Address         CAP Name
 CFG0_PORT1_CAP                0x0003_0100         0x0003_01FF         CFG0_PORT1_CAP1_LINK
                               0x0003_0200         0x0003_02FF         CFG0_PORT1_CAP2_LINK_LOG
                               ...                 ...
                               0x0003_FF00         0x0003_FFFF
 ...                           ...                 ...
 CFG0_ROUTE_TABLE              0xF000_0000         0xFFFF_FFFF         CFG0_ROUTE_TABLE


The start and end addresses use a unit of 4 bytes.

The CFG0_CAP Bitmap register in CFG0_BASIC indicates which CFG0 CAPs exist.

The CFG1_CAP Bitmap register in CFG1_BASIC indicates which CFG1 CAPs exist.

The PORT_CAP Bitmap register in CFG0_PORT_BASIC indicates which PORT CAPs exist.

The Route Table Supported register in CFG0_BASIC indicates whether CFG0_ROUTE_TABLE exists.

For the registers of each slice, see Appendix D.


10.4.1.4 Configuration Space Register Attributes
                               Table 10-7 Configuration space register attributes
 Attribute       Description
 RO              Read-Only
 RW              Read-Write
 RW1C            Read-Write-1-to-Clear
                 Read-Write. Write 1s to clear the register.
 HwInit          Hardware Initialized
                 After power-on and initialization, the register value remains unchanged, while the
                 register attribute changes to RO.
                 Only a device-level reset can reset this type of register.
 ROS             Read-Only-Sticky. Only a device-level reset can reset this type of register.
 RWS             Read-Write-Sticky. Only a device-level reset can reset this type of register.
 RW1CS           Read-Write-1-to-Clear-Sticky. Only a device-level reset can reset this type of register.
 *_DE0_EO        * indicates the register attributes described above. The meaning of *_DE0_EO is:
                 If the register is in Entity 0, the register attribute is *.
                 If the register is in Entity n (n ≠ 0), the register does not exist.
 *_DEN_RO        * indicates the register attributes described above. The meaning of *_DEN_RO is:
                 If the register is in Entity 0, the register attribute is *.
                 If the register is in Entity n (n ≠ 0), the register attribute is RO.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                          322
10 Resource Management



When an undefined register or register field in the configuration space is accessed, the following
rules apply:

      1.   Write operations return a command execution success response but do not take effect.
      2.   Read operations return a command execution success response and return all 0s.


10.4.2 Resource Space
A resource space is a storage region exposed by an Entity to software, containing interrupt
configurations, function- or service-specific parameters, and vendor-defined data. Each Entity's
resource space can be divided into a maximum of three parts, which are configured using the ERS
register group in CFG1_BASIC. The following figure shows the overall resource space layout.




                               Figure 10-18 Overall resource space layout

When type 2 interrupts are supported, resource space 0 stores the interrupt vector table, interrupt
address table, and interrupt pending table, as shown in the following figure. Resource spaces 1 and 2,
which are customized by vendors, provide open configuration interfaces for driver software.




                                     Figure 10-19 Resource space 0

A User MAY map an Entity resource space to the User's memory address space using MMIO. Allocated
address spaces cannot overlap across Entities. The User reads and writes the Entity resource space




unifiedbus.com                                                                                        323
10 Resource Management



through LPH.CFG=6 packets. The packets carry the User's UPI, which is verified when the Entity
receives the packets. If the UPI does not match, the command is invalid.


10.4.3 Management Commands

10.4.3.1 Management Messages

Management commands are used to discover and manage UB Controllers and UB Switches, including
link neighbor advertisement, enumeration management, and configuration management. Configuration
management involves command delivery and event reporting. Management commands are carried by
management messages over UB links.

The format of enumeration management messages is as follows:

  LPH         NTH          UPIH          Padding        Scan Header          Scan PDU             ICRC
                          Figure 10-20 Format of enumeration management messages

      1.   LPH.CFG = 6.
      2.   NTH.Mgmt: For a command initiated by UBFM, the value of this field is 1.
      3.   NTH.SCNA: If no CNA is allocated, the value of this field is 0.
      4.   NTH.DCNA: If no CNA is allocated, the value of this field is 0.
      5.   NTH.NLP = 3'b001.
      6.   UPIH: 16-bit UPI packet header, with the low-order 15 bits indicating the UPI. For a
           command initiated by UBFM, the value of this field is 0x7FFF. 0x7FFF is reserved by the
           protocol for UBFM to perform management.
      7.   Padding: contains 2 bytes and is filled with 0.
      8.   Scan Header: For details, see Section 10.4.3.2.
      9.   Scan PDU: For details, see Section 10.4.3.2.
      10. ICRC: System administrators can enable or disable ICRC protection in the power-on startup
           configuration.
      11. The total length of Scan Header and Scan PDU in an enumeration management message is
           less than or equal to 1024 bytes. Each message can be carried by only one packet.
      12. Enumeration management messages do not support TAACK; therefore, their transmission
           reliability cannot be guaranteed. The management software is responsible for ensuring this
           reliability.

The format of configuration management messages is as follows:

 LPH       NTH       CTPH         UPIH     SEID    DEID      BTAH      MGMTETAH         PDU       ICRC
                          Figure 10-21 Format of configuration management messages

      1.   LPH.CFG = 6.
      2.   NTH.Mgmt: For a command initiated by UBFM, the value of this field is 1.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                       324
10 Resource Management



      3.   NTH.DCNA: For management command delivery, the value of this field is the management
           target address. For event reporting, the value of this field is the UBFM or user address.
      4.   NTH.SCNA: For management command delivery, the value of this field is the UBFM or user
           address. For event reporting, the value of this field is the address of the node where the
           event occurs.
      5.   NTH.NLP = 0.
      6.   UPIH: 16-bit UPI packet header, with the low-order 15 bits indicating the UPI. For a
           command initiated by UBFM, the value of this field is 0x7FFF. For a configuration
           management message initiated by a user, the value of this field is the UPI corresponding to
           the user.
      7.   BTAH.Opcode = 0x10.
      8.   The length of the PDU in a configuration management message is less than or equal to 1024
           bytes. Each message can be carried by only one packet.
      9.   Configuration management messages lack TAACK, meaning their transmission reliability
           cannot be guaranteed. The management software is responsible for ensuring this reliability.

The error codes in enumeration and configuration management command responses are defined as
follows:

      1.   0x00: normal completion
      2.   0x01: unauthorized management
      3.   0x02: management target does not exist
      4.   0x03: incorrect message code
      5.   0x04: incorrect message length
      6.   0x05 to 0x1F: reserved
      7.   0x20: insufficient resources
      8.   0x21: insufficient permissions
      9.   0x22: incorrect address
      10. 0x23: busy
      11. 0x24: object already exists
      12. 0x25: object does not exist
      13. 0x26: invalid parameter
      14. 0x27: execution error
      15. 0x28 to 0xFE: reserved
      16. 0xFF: unknown error




unifiedbus.com                                                                                          325
10 Resource Management



10.4.3.2 Enumeration Management

Scan Header

When UBFM initiates enumeration, UB Controllers and UB Switches have not yet been configured with
CNAs so the enumeration management message cannot be directly forwarded to them through routing.
Therefore, enumeration management messages are forwarded via source routing, with Scan Header as
the extension network header. The format of Scan Header is as follows:

          Byte 0                      Byte 1                       Byte 2                       Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                 RSVD                  R       Type                Hops                          Step
                                                Forward Path
                                                 Return Path
                                    Figure 10-22 Format of Scan Header

After receiving an enumeration management message, UB Controllers and UB Switches forward or
respond to the message based on Scan Header. The fields of Scan Header are defined as follows:

     1.   R: contains 1 bit and indicates whether Scan Header carries Return Path. The value 0
          indicates it does not, while the value 1 indicates it does.
          Note: All request messages carry Return Path, while response messages do not. Destination
          nodes use the Return Path in request messages as the Forward Path for returning response
          messages.
     2.   Type: contains 4 bits and indicates the bit width of an egress port in Forward Path or Return Path.
          (1) 0: 4-bit width
          (2) 1: 8-bit width
          (3) 2: 16-bit width
          (4) 3 to 15: reserved
     3.   Hops: contains 8 bits and indicates the number of hops in Forward Path and Return Path. The
          two Paths have the same number of hops. If the value of this field is 0, Scan Header does not
          carry Forward Path and can be used by UBFM to search for the device information of the local
          node. If the value of this field is greater than 0, Scan Header carries Forward Path.
     4.   Step: contains 8 bits and indicates where the egress port via which the current node
          forwards the enumeration management message is located in Forward Path's egress port
          list. The initial value of this field is 0. After receiving an enumeration management message,
          the node increases the value of this field by 1. When Step equals Hops, the message has
          reached the destination node. When Step is less than Hops, the node forwards the message.
     5.   Forward Path: indicates the forward path's egress port list in the forward direction. The valid length
          of this field is Hops multiplied by the bit width of the egress port, which is determined by Type. This
          length is 4-byte aligned, with any shortfall filled with Padding. Forward Path is considered as an
          array. The egress port of the current node is determined by Forward Path[Step].




unifiedbus.com                                                                                                 326
10 Resource Management



      6.    Return Path: indicates the reverse egress port list when the destination end returns a
            response message. The valid length of this field is Hops multiplied by the bit width of the
            egress port, which is determined by Type. This length is 4-byte aligned, with any shortfall
            filled with Padding.

Scan PDU

Scan PDU carries enumeration management commands. The first double word (DW) of Scan PDU is
defined as follows:

            Byte 0                    Byte 1                    Byte 2                     Byte 3
7    6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
           Version                     CMD                         ...                       ...
                              Figure 10-23 Format of the first DW of Scan PDU

The first two bytes of Scan PDU are the command header, which is used to identify different
management commands.

      1.    Version: contains 8 bits and indicates the version number. The current version number is 1.
      2.    CMD: contains 8 bits and indicates the management command word. Users can customize
            commands within the custom coding area.

                                   Table 10-8 Management command words
 CMD Code                    Management Command Word Description
 0                           Topology query
 1                           CNA configuration
 2                           CNA query
 3 to 255                    Reserved

Topology Query

      1.    Topology query request
            Byte 0                    Byte 1                    Byte 2                     Byte 3
7 6 5 4        3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
           Version                     CMD                     Opcode                     Slice_ID
       MSGQ_ID                        Length                                  MSN
                                                   GUID0
                                                   GUID1
                                                   GUID2
                                                   GUID3
                         Figure 10-24 Scan PDU format of topology query requests




unifiedbus.com                                                                                            327
10 Resource Management



           UBFM sends topology query requests, in which Scan PDU follows the format illustrated above.
           (1) Version = 1.
           (2) CMD = 0.
           (3) Opcode: contains 8 bits and indicates the operation code 1 for topology query requests.
           (4) Slice_ID: contains 8 bits and indicates the ID of the device information slice requested in
                 the topology query request. This ID starts from 0.
           (5) MSGQ_ID: contains 8 bits and indicates the message queue ID assigned by the local
                 UB Controller for sending the command request.
           (6) Length: contains 8 bits and indicates the length of the PDU carried in the message, in
                 the unit of 4 bytes.
           (7) MSN: contains 16 bits and indicates the sequence number of the message. MSNs are
                 monotonically increasing numbers for UBFM to identify concurrent messages it initiates.
           (8) GUID: contains 128 bits and indicates the GUID of the destination node.
     2.    Topology query response
          Byte 0                        Byte 1                   Byte 2                   Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
          Version                       CMD                      Opcode                   Status
       MSGQ_ID                          Length                               MSN
                                                    GUID0
                                                    GUID1
                                                    GUID2
                                                    GUID3
                                                 Resp_content
                         Figure 10-25 Scan PDU format of topology query responses

           After receiving a topology query request, the destination node collects its own device
           information and returns a response to UBFM. Scan PDU in topology query responses follows
           the format illustrated above.
           (1) Version = 1.
           (2) CMD = 0.
           (3) Opcode: contains 8 bits and indicates the operation code 0 for topology query
                 responses.
           (4) Status: contains 8 bits and indicates the completion status. The value 0 indicates
                 success, while values 1 to 255 indicate failures with corresponding error codes. For the
                 definitions of error codes, see Section 10.4.3.1.
           (5) MSGQ_ID: contains 8 bits and indicates the MSGQ_ID carried in the topology query
                 request and returned as part of the response.
           (6) Length: contains 8 bits and indicates the length of the PDU carried in the message, in
                 the unit of 4 bytes.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                         328
10 Resource Management



            (7) MSN: contains 16 bits and indicates the MSN carried in the topology query request and
                  returned as part of the response.
            (8) GUID: contains 128 bits and indicates the GUID of the local node.
            (9) Resp_content: indicates the content of the topology query response. It consists of
                  multiple consecutive TLVs, whose structure is as follows:
            Byte 0                     Byte 1                        Byte 2                     Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
            Type                       Length                                    Value
                                                       Value
                         Figure 10-26 Structure of a TLV in topology query responses

      ⚫     Type: indicates the TLV information type (for details, see the following table). It determines
            how the Value field is parsed.
      ⚫     Length: indicates the total length of the TLV, in bytes. The length should be an integer
            multiple of 4.
      ⚫     Value: indicates the information carried by the TLV.

                               Table 10-9 TLV types of topology query responses
 Type Field       Type                        Definition                                          Description
 0                Slice_info                  Slice information in topology query responses       Mandatory
 1                Port_num                    Number of ports                                     Mandatory
 2                Port_info                   Port information                                    Mandatory
 3                RSVD                        Reserved by this specification                      /
 4                Cap_info                    Device capability and configuration information     Mandatory
 5                RSVD                        Reserved by this specification                      /
 6                RSVD                        Reserved by this specification                      /
 7 to 127         RSVD                        Reserved by this specification                      /
 128 to 255       Vendor defined              Defined by vendors                                  Optional


Destination nodes can determine the type and number of TLVs carried in a response message as
required. The following details different types of TLVs in response messages.

            Byte 0                     Byte 1                        Byte 2                     Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
              0                           4                        Total_slice                  Slice_ID
                                        Figure 10-27 Slice information




unifiedbus.com                                                                                                329
10 Resource Management



If the total information amount of a device exceeds the capacity of a topology query response message,
the destination node SHALL divide the information into slices of a fixed number and return the content
of the specified slice in response to UBFM's query.

      ⚫   Total_slice: contains 8 bits and indicates the total number of device information slices.
      ⚫   Slice_ID: contains 8 bits and indicates the ID of the device information slice returned in the
          topology query response.
          Byte 0                      Byte 1                        Byte 2                     Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
            1                            8                                   Total_num_ports
                   Num_port_TLV                                                  RSVD
                                        Figure 10-28 Number of ports

      ⚫   Total_num_ports: contains 16 bits and indicates the total number of ports on the destination
          node.
      ⚫   Num_port_TLV: contains 16 bits and indicates the number of port information TLVs carried in
          the topology query response.
          Byte 0                      Byte 1                        Byte 2                     Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
            2                           28                  RSVD       T W B S                 RSVD
                   Local_port_idx                                            Remote_port_idx
                                                    RSVD
                                               Remote_GUID0
                                               Remote_GUID1
                                               Remote_GUID2
                                                 Remote_GUID3
                                        Figure 10-29 Port information

      ⚫   T: contains 1 bit and indicates the port type. The value 0 indicates a port, while the value 1
          indicates a vPort.
      ⚫   W: contains 1 bit and indicates the work mode of the port. The value 0 indicates the
          exclusive work mode, in which the bus controller exclusively uses the port. The value 1
          indicates the shared work mode, in which the bus controller and other integrated controllers
          share the port.
      ⚫   B: contains 1 bit and indicates whether the local port is a boundary port. The value 0
          indicates it is not, while the value 1 indicates it is.
      ⚫   S: contains 1 bit and indicates the link status of the port. The value 0 indicates link down,
          while the value 1 indicates link up.
      ⚫   Local_port_idx: contains 16 bits and indicates the index of the local port.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                            330
10 Resource Management



     ⚫     Remote_port_idx: contains 16 bits and indicates the index of the remote port. This field is
           valid when the value of S is 1.
     ⚫     Remote_GUID: contains 128 bits and indicates the GUID of Entity 0 on the neighboring
           node. This field is valid when the value of S is 1.
          Byte 0                     Byte 1                            Byte 2                    Byte 3
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0                         7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0




                                                                 Sup_MTU
                                                        RSVD




                                                                             RSVD




                                                                                                 RSVD
                                                                                    MTU




                                                                                                          DA
             4                          8


                        RSVD                                                        Class Code
                        Figure 10-30 Device capability and configuration information

     ⚫     Sup_MTU: contains 3 bits and indicates the supported transport-layer MTU.
     ⚫     MTU: contains 3 bits and indicates the configured transport-layer MTU.
     ⚫     DA: short for device authentication, contains 1 bit and indicates whether authentication is
           supported. The value 0 indicates it is not supported, while the value 1 indicates it is.
     ⚫     Class Code: indicates the Class Code in configuration space 1 of Entity 0.

CNA Configuration

     1.    CNA configuration request
          Byte 0                     Byte 1                           Byte 2                     Byte 3
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
          Version                    CMD                            Opcode                       RSVD
         MSGQ_ID                     Length                                               MSN
                                                   GUID0
                                                   GUID1
                                                   GUID2
                                                   GUID3
                      Port_idx                                                            RSVD
          RSVD                                                             CNA
                       Figure 10-31 Scan PDU format of CNA configuration requests

           UBFM uses the CNA configuration command to deliver CNA configurations. Scan PDU in
           CNA configuration requests follows the format illustrated above and its length SHALL be 4-
           byte aligned.
           (1) CMD = 1.
           (2) Opcode: contains 8 bits and indicates the operation code.
                 ⚫   2: Configure a primary CNA.



unifiedbus.com                                                                                            331
10 Resource Management



                 ⚫   3: Configure a port CNA.
                 ⚫   4: Configure a primary CNA and set it as the CNA for all ports.
                 ⚫   Others: Reserved.
           (3) Length: indicates the length of the PDU carried in the message, in the unit of 4 bytes.
           (4) MSGQ_ID: indicates the ID of the message queue for sending the command request.
           (5) MSN: indicates the sequence number of the message. MSNs are monotonically
                 increasing numbers for UBFM to identify concurrent messages it initiates.
           (6) GUID: indicates the GUID of the destination node.
           (7) Port_idx: indicates the port index. This field is valid when the value of Opcode is 3.
     2.    CNA configuration response
          Byte 0                      Byte 1                    Byte 2                     Byte 3
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
          Version                     CMD                       Opcode                     Status
       MSGQ_ID                       Length                                    MSN
                                                     GUID0
                                                     GUID1
                                                     GUID2
                                                     GUID3
                       Figure 10-32 Scan PDU format of CNA configuration responses

           After receiving a CNA configuration request, the destination node configures a CNA and
           returns a response to UBFM. Scan PDU in CNA configuration responses follows the format
           illustrated above.
           (1) CMD = 1.
           (2) Opcode: indicates the operation code 0 for confirming that the configuration is complete.
           (3) Status: indicates the completion status. The value 0 indicates success, while values 1 to
                 255 indicate failures with corresponding error codes. For the definitions of error codes,
                 see Section 10.4.3.1.
           (4) Length: indicates the length of the PDU carried in the message, in the unit of 4 bytes.
           (5) MSGQ_ID: indicates the MSGQ_ID carried in the CNA configuration request and
                 returned as part of the response.
           (6) MSN: indicates the MSN carried in the CNA configuration request and returned as part
                 of the response.
           (7) GUID: indicates the GUID of the local node.

CNA Query

     1.    CNA query request




unifiedbus.com                                                                                           332
10 Resource Management



          Byte 0                     Byte 1                    Byte 2                     Byte 3
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
          Version                    CMD                       Opcode                     RSVD
       MSGQ_ID                       Length                                   MSN
                                                  GUID0
                                                  GUID1
                                                  GUID2
                                                  GUID3
                         RSVD                                               Port_idx
                           Figure 10-33 Scan PDU format of CNA query requests

           UBFM uses the CNA query command to query network address configurations. Scan PDU in
           CNA query requests follows the format illustrated above.
           (1) CMD = 2.
           (2) Opcode: indicates the operation code.
                 −   2: Query the primary CNA.
                 −   3: Query the port CNA.
                 −   Others: Reserved.
           (3) Length: indicates the length of the PDU carried in the message, in the unit of 4 bytes.
           (4) MSGQ_ID: indicates the ID of the message queue for sending the command request.
           (5) MSN: indicates the sequence number of the message. MSNs are monotonically
                 increasing numbers for UBFM to identify concurrent messages it initiates.
           (6) GUID: indicates the GUID of the destination node.
           (7) Port_idx: indicates the port index. This field is valid when the value of Opcode is 3.
     2.    CNA query response
          Byte 0                     Byte 1                    Byte 2                     Byte 3
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
          Version                    CMD                       Opcode                     Status
       MSGQ_ID                       Length                                   MSN
                                                  GUID0
                                                  GUID1
                                                  GUID2
                                                  GUID3
          RSVD                                                  CNA
                          Figure 10-34 Scan PDU format of CNA query responses




unifiedbus.com                                                                                           333
10 Resource Management



           Scan PDU in CNA query responses follows the format illustrated above.
           (1) CMD = 2.
           (2) Opcode: indicates the operation code 0 for query responses.
           (3) Length: indicates the length of the PDU carried in the message, in the unit of 4 bytes.
           (4) MSGQ_ID: indicates the MSGQ_ID carried in the CNA query request and returned as
                 part of the response.
           (5) MSN: indicates the MSN carried in the CNA query request and returned as part of the
                 response.
           (6) GUID: indicates the GUID of the local node.
           (7) Status: indicates the completion status. The value 0 indicates success, while values 1 to
                 255 indicate failures with corresponding error codes. For the definitions of error codes,
                 see Section 10.4.3.1.


10.4.3.3 Configuration Management

Management Extended TAH (MGMTETAH)

                                     Table 10-10 MGMTETAH format
           Byte 0                        Byte 1                  Byte 2                    Byte 3
7 6 5 4 3           2 1   0     7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0

 Sub Code        Code
                          Rsp




                                    Status [7:0]          RSVD                PDU Length [11:0]
   [3:0]         [2:0]


MGMTETAH follows the format illustrated above, and its fields are defined as follows:

      1.   Sub Code: indicates the sub-code of the configuration management command.
      2.   Code: indicates the code of the configuration management command.
      3.   Rsp: indicates a command request or response.
           (1) 0: request
           (2) 1: response
      4.   Status: indicates the completion status of the command request. This field is valid when the
           value of Rsp is 1. The field value is an error code. For the definitions of error codes, see
           Section 10.4.3.1.
      5.   PDU Length: indicates the length of the PDU carried in the command message, in bytes. The
           value ranges from 0 to 1024.

                                Table 10-11 MGMTETAH Code and Sub Code
 Code                             Sub Code               Description
 3'b000                           4'b0000                Correctable Error event
 Error Message                    4'b0001                Non-Fatal Uncorrectable Error event




unifiedbus.com                                                                                            334
10 Resource Management



 Code                    Sub Code             Description
                         4'b0010              Fatal Uncorrectable Error event
                         4'b0011 to 4'b1111   Reserved
 3'b001                  4'b0000              Link Up event
 Link Change Message     4'b0001              Link Down event
                         4'b0010              Hot-plug Button Pressed event
                         4'b0011              Hot-plug Presence Detect Changed event
                         4'b0100 to 4'b1111   Reserved
 3'b010                  4'b0000              Configuration Space 0 Read
 Configuration Message   4'b0001              Configuration Space 0 Write
                         4'b0010              Configuration Space 1 Read
                         4'b0011              Configuration Space 1 Write
                         4'b0100 to 4'b1111   Reserved
 3'b011                  4'b0000              MCTP Over UB
 VDM                     4'b0001              Unified Virtual Bus
                         4'b0010 to 4'b1110   Reserved for UB Spec
                         4'b1111              Reserved for Vendor
 3'b100                  4'b0000              Reserved
 Entity Information      4'b0001              Resource Space Information Exchange
 Exchange Message
                         4'b0010              Obtaining Entity Information
                         4'b0011              Reserved
                         4'b0100              Reserved
                         4'b0101              Reserved
                         4'b0110              Reserved
                         4'b0111              Link Neighbor Query
                         4'b1000 to 4'b1111   Reserved
 3'b101                  4'b0000              Reserved
 Device Security         4'b0001              Device Authentication Interaction
 Management Message
                         4'b0010              Token Check Configuration
                         4'b0011              Reserved
                         4'b0100              Reserved
                         4'b0101 to 4'b1111   Reserved
 3'b110                  4'b0000              Entity Registration
 Pooled Resource         4'b0001              Entity Deregistration



unifiedbus.com                                                                         335
10 Resource Management



 Code                              Sub Code              Description
 Management Message                4'b0010               Bus Instance Create
                                   4'b0011               Bus Instance Destroy
                                   4'b0100               Configuration Completion Notification
                                   4'b0101               Port Reset Notification
                                   4'b0110 to 4'b1111    Reserved
 3'b111                            4'b0000 to 4'b1111    Reserved
 Reserved


Error Message

Error messages report class-C error events to UBFM, including Correctable Error, Non-Fatal
Uncorrectable Error, and Fatal Uncorrectable Error events, all following the same PDU format.

            Byte 0                      Byte 1                    Byte 2                     Byte 3
  7     6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
            RSVD                                                  SCNA
 EL                         RSVD                                              Port_idx
                               Figure 10-35 PDU format of error messages

The PDUs in error messages follow the format illustrated above, and their fields are defined as follows:

      1.   SCNA: contains 24 bits and indicates the network address of the node where the error
           occurs.
      2.   Port_idx: contains 16 bits and indicates the index of the port in error. This field is valid when
           the value of EL is 0.
      3.   EL: contains 1 bit and indicates the error level. The value 0 indicates a port-level error, while
           the value 1 indicates a device-level error.

Link Change Message

      1.   Link Up/Down Message
           Link change messages report status change events of port links, including Link Up and Link
           Down events, to trigger dynamic device connection or disconnection, link failover, and link
           failback by UBFM. Both events follow the same PDU format.
           Byte 0                     Byte 1                     Byte 2                     Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
           RSVD                                                  SCNA
                       RSVD                                                  Port_idx
                            Figure 10-36 PDU format of link change messages




unifiedbus.com                                                                                           336
10 Resource Management



            The PDUs in link change messages follow the format illustrated above, and their fields are
            defined as follows:
            (1) SCNA: contains 24 bits and indicates the network address of the port whose link status
                    changes. If no network address has been configured for the port, the network address of
                    the UB Controller or UB Switch is reported.
            (2) Port_idx: contains 16 bits and indicates the index of the port whose link status changes.
      2.    Hot-plug Message
            Hot-plug messages report events related to the working status of slots, including Hot-plug
            Button Pressed and Hot-plug Presence Detect Changed, both following the same PDU
            format.
            Byte 0                        Byte 1                     Byte 2                     Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                           RSVD                                               Slot_idx
                                                       RSVD
                                    Figure 10-37 PDU format of hot-plug messages

            The PDUs in hot-plug messages follow the format illustrated above, and their field is defined
            as follows:
            Slot_idx: contains 16 bits and indicates the index of the slot that reports the event.

Configuration Message

Configuration messages are used to read and write configuration space registers. Each message
carries only one operation, either a request or a response, as indicated by the MGMTETAH.Rsp field.
Requests and responses follow different PDU formats.

           Byte 0                      Byte 1                  Byte 2                        Byte 3
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0                               7     6    5     4      3 2 1 0
                       Entity_idx                              RSVD                Byte_En             RSVD
                                                   Request Address
                                                   RSVD (4 bytes)
                                                        Data
                           Figure 10-38 PDU format of configuration request messages

The PDUs in configuration request messages follow the format illustrated above, and their fields are
defined as follows:

      1.    Byte_En: indicates whether to enable byte write. It contains 4 bits, corresponding to the
            enable bits of the 4-byte data.
            −   1: enable
            −   0: disable




unifiedbus.com                                                                                                337
10 Resource Management



      2.    Entity_idx: contains 16 bits and indicates the Entity index.
      3.    Request Address: contains 4 bytes and indicates the request address, in the unit of 4 bytes.
      4.    Data: contains 4 bytes and indicates the configuration data.
           Byte 0                     Byte 1                     Byte 2                   Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                                                    Data
                                               RSVD (4 bytes)
                                               RSVD (4 bytes)
                                               RSVD (4 bytes)
                       Figure 10-39 PDU format of configuration response messages

The PDUs in configuration response messages follow the format illustrated above, and their field is
defined as follows:

Data: contains 4 bytes and indicates the data returned in the configuration read response.

Vendor-Defined Message (VDM)

      1.    MCTP Over UB
            MCTP messages (DMTF DSP0236) are transmitted over UB links as PDUs of configuration
            management messages, without any modification.
      2.    VDM for UB Spec
            VDM for UB Spec is reserved by this specification. Its PDU format is as follows:
           Byte 0                     Byte 1                     Byte 2                   Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                                            UB Spec. Definition
                               Figure 10-40 PDU format of VDM for UB Spec

      3.    VDM for Vendor
            VDM for Vendor is defined by vendors. Its PDU format is as follows:
           Byte 0                     Byte 1                     Byte 2                   Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
  Version           Type                                          RSVD
                       Vendor ID                                           Device ID
                                               Vendor Definition
                                Figure 10-41 PDU format of VDM for Vendor

The fields corresponding to the first eight bytes are from the GUID and are used for verification.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                        338
10 Resource Management



Entity Information Exchange Message

     1.    Resource Space Information Exchange
           Resource Space Information Exchange messages are used to accelerate reads from and
           writes to resource space configuration register groups. The length of PDUs in Resource
           Space Information Exchange messages depends on the value of Opcode in requests: 0 for 4
           bytes and 1 for 28 bytes in request messages; 0 for 36 bytes and 1 for 0 bytes in response
           messages.
          Byte 0                     Byte 1                      Byte 2               Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1                                      0




                                                                                                    Opcode
                                                RSVD


                                                ERS0_SA0
                                                ERS0_SA1
                                                ERS1_SA0
                                                ERS1_SA1
                                                ERS2_SA0
                                                ERS2_SA1
          Figure 10-42 PDU format of Resource Space Information Exchange request messages

           The PDUs in Resource Space Information Exchange request messages follow the format
           illustrated above, and their fields are defined as follows:
           (1) Opcode: indicates the operation code.
                 −   0: Obtain the resource space information.
                 −   1: Configure the resource space information.
           (2) ERS0_SA: contains 8 bytes and indicates the start address of resource space 0.
           (3) ERS1_SA: contains 8 bytes and indicates the start address of resource space 1.
           (4) ERS2_SA: contains 8 bytes and indicates the start address of resource space 2.
          Byte 0                     Byte 1                       Byte 2               Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                                                 ERS0_SS
                                                ERS0_SA0
                                                ERS0_SA1
                                                 ERS1_SS
                                                ERS1_SA0
                                                ERS1_SA1




unifiedbus.com                                                                                      339
10 Resource Management



          Byte 0                      Byte 1                     Byte 2                        Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                                                  ERS2_SS
                                                 ERS2_SA0
                                                 ERS2_SA1
          Figure 10-43 PDU format of Resource Space Information Exchange response messages

           The PDUs in Resource Space Information Exchange response messages follow the format
           illustrated above, and their fields are defined as follows:
           (1) ERS0_SS: contains 4 bytes and indicates the size of resource space 0, in the unit
                 specified by SYS_PGS. The field value is 0 when there is no resource space 0.
           (2) ERS1_SS: contains 4 bytes and indicates the size of resource space 1, in the unit
                 specified by SYS_PGS. The field value is 0 when there is no resource space 1.
           (3) ERS2_SS: contains 4 bytes and indicates the size of resource space 2, in the unit
                 specified by SYS_PGS. The field value is 0 when there is no resource space 2.
           (4) ERS0_SA: contains 8 bytes and indicates the start address of resource space 0.
           (5) ERS1_SA: contains 8 bytes and indicates the start address of resource space 1.
           (6) ERS2_SA: contains 8 bytes and indicates the start address of resource space 2.
     2.    Obtaining Entity Information
          Byte 0                     Byte 1                     Byte 2                      Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1                                          0
                                                    RSVD
                      MUE nums                                              Entity nums
                  MUE0's end UE idx                                      MUE0's start UE idx
                  MUE1's end UE idx                                      MUE1's start UE idx
                                                      ...
                  MUEx's end UE idx                                      MUEx's start UE idx
                 Figure 10-44 PDU format of Obtaining Entity Information response messages

           Obtaining Entity Information request messages do not carry PDUs, but response messages
           do. The PDUs in response messages follow the format illustrated above, and their fields are
           defined as follows:
           (1) Entity nums: contains 2 bytes and indicates the total number of Entities.
           (2) MUE nums: contains 2 bytes and indicates the number of MUEs.
           (3) MUE[i]'s start UE idx: contains 2 bytes and indicates the start index of UEs owned by
                 the ith MUE. If the value of this field is equal to i, no UE is bound to the MUE.
           (4) MUE[i]'s end UE idx: contains 2 bytes and indicates the end index of UEs owned by the
                 ith MUE. If the value of this field is equal to i, no UE is bound to the MUE.



unifiedbus.com                                                                                          340
10 Resource Management



      3.   Link Neighbor Query
           UBFM uses the Link Neighbor Query command to query the neighbors of a specified port set
           on a destination node. A PDU in a Link Neighbor Query response message carries one or
           more Port_info TLVs of topology query responses, enabling functions such as incremental
           enumeration.
           Byte 0                     Byte 1                    Byte 2                    Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
 D          RSVD                    Port_num                                 RSVD
                        Port_idx0                                           Port_idx1
                        Port_idx2                                              ...
                     Figure 10-45 PDU format of Link Neighbor Query request messages

The PDUs in Link Neighbor Query request messages follow the format illustrated above, and their fields
are defined as follows:

           (1) D (discrete): contains 1 bit and indicates the query mode.
                 −   0: batch query of consecutive port indexes, which start from Port_idx0 and end with
                     Port_idx1
                 −   1: batch query of discrete port indexes—Port_idx0, Port_idx1, Port_idx2, and so on
           (2) Port_num: contains 1 byte and indicates the number of ports to be queried. UBFM
                 SHALL ensure that the size of the response message does not exceed the capacity of a
                 management message.
           (3) Port_idx: contains 2 bytes and indicates the port index to be queried.
           Byte 0                     Byte 1                    Byte 2                   Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                                               Port_info TLVs
                     Figure 10-46 PDU format of Link Neighbor Query response messages

           The PDUs in Link Neighbor Query response messages follow the format illustrated above,
           and their field is defined as follows:
           Port_info TLVs: indicates one or more TLVs returned in the response message, with the
           format defined in "Topology Query" in Section 10.4.3.2.

Device Security Management Message

      1.   Device Authentication Interaction
           The format of PDUs in Device Authentication Interaction messages follows the SPDM
           (DMTF DSP0274).
      2.   Token Check Configuration
           Token Check Configuration enables or disables devices to check tokens for resource space
           access requests. By default, token check is disabled on devices. Configuration request



unifiedbus.com                                                                                        341
10 Resource Management



              messages always carry 4-byte PDUs. The response messages for enabling token check
              carry 8-byte PDUs, while those for disabling token check do not carry PDUs.
             Byte 0                    Byte 1                   Byte 2                    Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1                                           0




                                                                                                         Check_En
                                                   RSVD


                   Figure 10-47 PDU format of Token Check Configuration request messages

              The PDUs in Token Check Configuration request messages follow the format illustrated
              above, and their field is defined as follows:
              Check_En: contains 1 bit and indicates whether to enable token check. The value 0 means
              to disable, while the value 1 means to enable.
             Byte 0                     Byte 1                   Byte 2                     Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                      RSVD                                               TokenID
                                                   TokenValue
                  Figure 10-48 PDU format of Token Check Configuration response messages

              The PDUs in Token Check Configuration response messages follow the format illustrated
              above, and their fields are defined as follows:
              (1) TokenID: contains 20 bits and indicates the token ID that SHALL be carried for
                  accessing the resource space.
              (2) TokenValue: contains 32 bits and indicates the token value carried for accessing the
                  resource space.

Pooled Resource Management Message

        1.    Entity Registration
              UBFM uses the Entity Registration command to allocate pooled Entities to users. Entity
              Registration request messages always carry 92-byte PDUs, while response messages do
              not carry PDUs.
             Byte 0                      Byte 1                  Byte 2                     Byte 3
 7      6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
 RSVD




                              UPI                                            Entity_idx


                                                       EID0
                                                       EID1
                                                       EID2




unifiedbus.com                                                                                           342
10 Resource Management



         Byte 0                      Byte 1                    Byte 2                    Byte 3
 7   6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                                                   EID3
                                                  GUID0
                                                  GUID1
                                                  GUID2
                                                  GUID3
         RSVD                                                   CNA
                                                  UEID0
                                                  UEID1
                                                  UEID2
                                                  UEID3
                                                 ERS0_SS
                                                 ERS0_SA0
                                                 ERS0_SA1
                                                 ERS1_SS
                                                 ERS1_SA0
                                                 ERS1_SA1
                                                 ERS2_SS
                                                 ERS2_SA0
                                                 ERS2_SA1
                     Figure 10-49 PDU format of Entity Registration request messages

          The PDUs in Entity Registration request messages follow the format illustrated above, and
          their fields are defined as follows:
          (1) Entity_idx: contains 16 bits and indicates the index of the Entity to be registered for use
                 by the user.
          (2) UPI: contains 15 bits and indicates the UPI of the Entity to be registered for use by
                 the user.
          (3) EID: contains 128 bits and indicates the EID of the Entity to be registered for use by
                 the user.
          (4) GUID: contains 128 bits and indicates the GUID of the Entity to be registered for use by
                 the user.
          (5) CNA: contains 24 bits and indicates the CNA of the Entity to be registered for use by
                 the user.
          (6) UEID: contains 128 bits and indicates the EID of the user.
          (7) ERS0_SS: contains 32 bits and indicates the address space size of resource space 0, in
                 the unit specified by SYS_PGS. The field value is 0 when there is no resource space 0.
          (8) ERS0_SA: contains 64 bits and indicates the start address of resource space 0.



unifiedbus.com                                                                                        343
10 Resource Management



          (9) ERS1_SS: contains 32 bits and indicates the address space size of resource space 1, in
                 the unit specified by SYS_PGS. The field value is 0 when there is no resource space 1.
          (10) ERS1_SA: contains 64 bits and indicates the start address of resource space 1.
          (11) ERS2_SS: contains 32 bits and indicates the address space size of resource space 2, in
                 the unit specified by SYS_PGS. The field value is 0 when there is no resource space 2.
          (12) ERS2_SA: contains 64 bits and indicates the start address of resource space 2.
     2.   Entity Deregistration
          UBFM uses the Entity Deregistration command to reclaim allocated Entities from users.
          Entity Deregistration request messages always carry 20-byte PDUs, while response
          messages do not carry PDUs.
          Byte 0                      Byte 1                   Byte 2                    Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                                                   EID0
                                                   EID1
                                                   EID2
                                                   EID3
                                      RSVD                                               Reason
                     Figure 10-50 PDU format of Entity Deregistration request messages

          The PDUs in Entity Deregistration request messages follow the format illustrated above, and
          their fields are defined as follows:
          (1) EID: contains 128 bits and indicates the EID of the allocated Entity.
          (2) Reason: contains 8 bits and indicates the reason for deregistration.
                 −   0x00: normal deregistration
                 −   0x01: device error
                 −   0x02: abnormal device link
                 −   0x03 to 0xFF: reserved
     3.   Bus Instance Create
          The Bus Instance Create command is used to create entries for VMs to access the bus.
          Its request messages always carry 36-byte PDUs, while its response messages do not
          carry PDUs.
          Byte 0                      Byte 1                   Byte 2                    Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                                                   GUID0
                                                   GUID1
                                                   GUID2
                                                   GUID3




unifiedbus.com                                                                                      344
10 Resource Management



          Byte 0                         Byte 1                      Byte 2                        Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                                                       EID0
                                                       EID1
                                                       EID2
                                                       EID3
                           RSVD                                                        UPI
                    Figure 10-51 PDU format of Bus Instance Create request messages

          The PDUs in Bus Instance Create request messages follow the format illustrated above, and
          their fields are defined as follows:
          (1) GUID: contains 128 bits and indicates the GUID of the Bus Instance.
          (2) EID: contains 128 bits and indicates the EID of the Bus Instance.
          (3) UPI: contains 15 bits and indicates the UPI of the Bus Instance.
          Note: If a UBPU has multiple bus controllers, the bus controller instance created by running this command
          takes effect on all these bus controllers.

     4.   Bus Instance Destroy
          The Bus Instance Destroy command is used to destroy the entries for VMs to access the
          bus. Its request messages always carry 16-byte PDUs, while its response messages do not
          carry PDUs.
          Byte 0                         Byte 1                      Byte 2                        Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                                                       GUID0
                                                       GUID1
                                                       GUID2
                                                       GUID3
                   Figure 10-52 PDU format of Bus Instance Destroy request messages

          The PDUs in Bus Instance Destroy request messages follow the format illustrated above,
          and their field is defined as follows:
          GUID: contains 128 bits and indicates the GUID of the Bus Instance.
     5.   Configuration Completion Notification
          The Configuration Completion Notification command is used to notify UBPUs that the bus
          controller configuration is complete and the UB Bus Driver is ready to provide services for
          the upper layer. Its request messages carry 36-byte PDUs, while its response messages do
          not carry PDUs.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                                   345
10 Resource Management



          Byte 0                       Byte 1                         Byte 2                         Byte 3
 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                                                     RSVD                                                             F
                                                         GUID0
                                                         GUID1
                                                         GUID2
                                                         GUID3
                                                         EID0
                                                         EID1
                                                         EID2
                                                         EID3
           Figure 10-53 PDU format of Configuration Completion Notification request messages

          The PDUs in Configuration Completion Notification request messages follow the format
          illustrated above, and their fields are defined as follows:
          (1) GUID: contains 128 bits and indicates the GUID of the bus controller instance. This field
                 is valid when the value of F is 1.
          (2) EID: contains 128 bits and indicates the EID of the bus controller instance. This field is
                 valid when the value of F is 1.
          (3) F: indicates whether to create a bus controller instance for the UBPU. The value 0
                 means not, while the value 1 means to create.
          Note: If a UBPU has multiple bus controllers, the bus controller instance created by running this command
          takes effect on all these bus controllers. When the bus controller instance is created, it SHALL be assigned
          the same UPI as that of the bus controllers.

     6.   Port Reset Notification
          UBFM uses the Port Reset Notification command to instruct UBPUs to perform reset
          operations on the ports of bus controllers, including preparing for and completing port reset.
          After receiving a reset preparation notification, a UBPU SHALL make preparations for the
          reset, including stopping traffic on other controllers that share the port with the bus controller.
          Port Reset Notification request messages always carry 4-byte PDUs, while response
          messages do not carry PDUs.
          Byte 0                       Byte 1                         Byte 2                        Byte 3
    7 65 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                       Port_idx                                                    RSVD                               T
                    Figure 10-54 PDU format of Port Reset Notification request messages

          The PDUs in Port Reset Notification request messages follow the format illustrated above,
          and their fields are defined as follows:




unifiedbus.com                                                                                                     346
10 Resource Management



           (1) T: contains 1 bit and indicates the type of the port reset notification. The value 0
                 indicates port reset preparation, while the value 1 indicates port reset completion.
           (2) Port_idx: contains 16 bits and indicates the index of the port to be reset.


10.4.4 Link Neighbor Advertisement
Link neighbor advertisement enables two UBPUs connected by a UB link to exchange neighbor
information via link-layer Param_Exchg blocks. The neighbor information includes:

      1.   Value in the Port Index register
      2.   GUID of Entity 0

System administrators can enable or disable the link neighbor advertisement function based on the
enumeration range. After receiving a link neighbor advertisement, a UBPU stores the port index and
GUID carried in the advertisement to the Neighbor Port Info register group. The information in the
Neighbor Port Info register group is valid only when port links are up. If a port link is down, the UBPU
SHALL clear the information in the Neighbor Port Info register group to prevent software from reading
incorrect information during dynamic connection or disconnection of neighboring nodes.

A Param_Exchg block used for a link neighbor advertisement includes five flits (flit 0 to flit 4), whose
formats are as follows:

Flit0.PARAMETER_EXCHANGE_DATA.Byte0-Byte3={RSVD[15:0],port_idx[15:0]}

Flit1.PARAMETER_EXCHANGE_DATA.Byte0-Byte3={GUID[31:0]}

Flit2.PARAMETER_EXCHANGE_DATA.Byte0-Byte3={GUID[63:32]}

Flit3.PARAMETER_EXCHANGE_DATA.Byte0-Byte3={GUID[95:64]}

Flit4.PARAMETER_EXCHANGE_DATA.Byte0-Byte3={GUID[127:96]}


10.4.5 Pooled Entity Management

10.4.5.1 Management Role

Functions or services specified by all Entities in a UB domain form a shareable resource pool. The
pooled Entity resources can be managed by one role and used by another: UBPUs provide and use
these resources, while UBFM manages these resources and dynamically allocates them to the UBPUs.
Entity 0 is responsible for the common configuration management of UB Controllers and SHALL NOT
be allocated to untrusted UBPUs.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                             347
10 Resource Management




                                 Figure 10-55 Pooled Entity management


10.4.5.2 Registration Process

UBFM discovers and manages pooled resources, including configuring network addresses and routes.
The registration process of pooled resources is as follows:

      1.   UBFM configures an EID, UPI, and UEID for an Entity.
      2.   UBFM sends an Entity registration command to allocate the Entity configured in step 1 to
           the user.
      3.   Upon receiving the registration command, the UB Bus Driver of the user registers the Entity
           with the UB bus in the OS and returns a response to UBFM.
      4.   After the registration is successful, the user creates a device in the OS, loads the device
           driver, and starts to use the device functions.




                                    Figure 10-56 Registration process

In the preceding process, UBFM SHALL:

After sending an Entity registration command to the user, wait for a response to confirm that the
registration is complete. If no response is received within a period of time (determined by the UBFM
software), the registration fails and UBFM reclaims the Entity.



unifiedbus.com                                                                                           348
10 Resource Management



In the preceding process, the user SHALL:

      1.   Read the device information of the specified Entity to confirm that the Entity is available.
      2.   After receiving a registration command from UBFM, record the registration behavior and
           return only one response.
      3.   Be able to call remote device functions based on the local UB Controller, which can be a bus
           controller, network controller, or the like.


10.4.5.3 Deregistration Process

The deregistration process is as follows:

      1.   UBFM sends an Entity deregistration command to instruct the user to deregister the
           allocated Entity.
      2.   The user deregisters the device resources, stops accessing the remote device, and destroys
           the device created in the OS.
      3.   After the deregistration is complete, the user returns a response to UBFM.
      4.   UBFM resets the deregistered Entity and reclaims it.




                                    Figure 10-57 Deregistration process

In the preceding process, UBFM SHALL:

After sending an Entity deregistration command to the user, wait for a response to confirm that the
deregistration is complete and then reclaim the Entity. If no response is received within a period of time
(determined by the UBFM software), the deregistration fails and UBFM forcibly reclaims the Entity.

In the preceding process, the user SHALL:

      1.   After receiving a deregistration command from UBFM, record the deregistration behavior and
           return only one response.
      2.   When deregistering the Entity, start by deregistering the resources allocated to the Entity in
           the OS to prevent the user itself or any other UBPU authorized by the user from accessing
           the Entity again.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                            349
10 Resource Management



10.4.5.4 Replacement Process

If an uncorrectable error occurs on an Entity allocated to a user, UBFM can select another Entity,
migrate the basic configuration of the faulty Entity to the selected Entity, and register the selected Entity
with the user as a replacement. The implementation of remote device replacement on the user side is
restricted by the device functions specified by Entities and is not defined in this specification.


10.4.6 Communication Control




         Figure 10-58 Reference process of communication control in standard transmission mode

System administrators MAY enable communication control between UBPUs when needed. The
preceding figure shows the process of communication control between UBPUs a and b in the standard
transmission mode: (1) UBPUs a and b apply to UBFM for communication; (2) UBFM determines
whether UBPUs a and b can communicate with each other based on the policy preset by a system
administrator, and if the policy allows, authorizes UBPUs a and b to communicate with each other; (3)
UBPUs a and b negotiate TP channels; (4) UBPUs a and b report the negotiation result to UBFM; (5)
UBFM activates the TP channels for UBPUs a and b; and (6) UBPUs a and b start to communicate with
each other.

In CTP or TP bypass mode, UBFM can control the communication between UBPUs by controlling the
entry configuration of UB Controller routing tables, that is, delivering routing table entries only when
communication is allowed.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                             350
10 Resource Management



10.4.7 Remote Memory Registration Control




                 Figure 10-59 Reference process of remote memory registration control

System administrators MAY enable centralized control of remote memory registration on UBPUs when
needed. When centralized control of remote memory registration is enabled, the Decoder MATT
jurisdiction register of UB Controllers SHALL be set to the UBFM control mode. The preceding figure
shows the process of remote memory registration control on UBPU a: (1) UBFM queries the resource
space address of an Entity or obtains the memory segment address of another UBPU other than UBPU
a; (2) UBFM writes the address to the Decoder MATT of UBPU a; and (3) the processor core of UBPU a
can access the remote memory by using load/store.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                        351
10 Resource Management



10.5 Virtualization

10.5.1 Virtualization Mechanism




                               Figure 10-60 UB-based virtualization system

UB MAY support hardware-assisted device virtualization, allowing Entities to be passed through to VMs
using the hypervisor virtualization software stack and system platform hardware. In the virtualization
system illustrated above, the hosts contain software and hardware components, including processors,
memory, UMMUs, hypervisors, and UB Controllers (which can be bus controllers or the like). UBFM can
allocate pooled Entities to a specified VM. The allocated Entities can be uninstalled from the VM, and
then reallocated to another VM after security processing (for example, Entity-level reset).

When starting a VM, the hypervisor virtualization software stack SHALL first create an independent
Entity as an entry for the VM to access the bus. This Entity is assigned an EID and a UPI. By using
Entity EIDs, devices can access VMs' memory and VMs can access each other's memory. VMs and
devices of different users are isolated by UB partitions and cannot access each other. For details, see
Section 10.3.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                           352
10 Resource Management




                                    Figure 10-61 Virtualization mechanism

After a host OS allocates resources to an Entity, the hypervisor SHALL implement device virtualization by:

      1.   Packaging the Entity as a device for the VM to use, with the data plane passed through to
           the VM and the management plane taken over by the hypervisor.
           (1) The data plane of the Entity handles resource space accesses, interrupts, and device
                 function data flows. The host of the VM cannot access this data plane.
           (2) The hypervisor manages the Entity by accessing its configuration spaces.
      2.   Supporting the UB bus, simulating an interconnection structure based on the topology
           specified by the administrator, and presenting the structure to the VM.


10.5.2 Virtualization Management

10.5.2.1 Entity Initialization

Before being used, an Entity SHALL be initialized by performing the following operations:

      1.   Configure an EID and a UPI.
      2.   Configure resource spaces.


10.5.2.2 Entity Interrupt

In virtualization scenarios, Entity interrupts can be passed through to VMs.


10.5.2.3 Entity Reset

In virtualization scenarios, Entity-level reset can be performed: (1) on a device to be replaced to ensure
information security and restore the Entity to the initial state; and (2) before an Entity is imported into a
VM to restore the Entity to the initial state.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                             353
10 Resource Management



10.6 RAS

10.6.1 Reset

10.6.1.1 General Requirements

A UBPU SHALL support the reset function, including device-level, Entity-level, and port-level reset.

A UBPU SHALL support reset upon device management command delivery and MAY support reset
triggered by pin signals, as well as self-reset. Self-reset is not defined in this specification.


10.6.1.2 Device-Level Reset

10.6.1.2.1 Scope

Device-level reset restores all Entities, their specified functions or services, and ports in a UBPU to their
initial state at power-on. During device-level reset, unfinished tasks may encounter exceptions or
response timeouts.


10.6.1.2.2 Management-Command-Triggered Reset

The device-level reset register only exists in Entity 0.

Upon receiving a device-level reset command, a UBPU executes the reset operation without
responding. A UBFM MAY query the reset progress after a delay.


10.6.1.2.3 Pin-Signal-Triggered Reset

A UBPU MAY support reset triggered by a signal line. When the level of the line meets the
requirements, the reset operation is triggered.


10.6.1.3 Entity-Level Reset

Entity-level reset restores an Entity's configuration space 1 and resource spaces to their initial state at
power-on. It does not affect public resource configurations at the network layer, data link layer, and
physical layer.

Users MAY use configuration management commands to reset their respective Entities.

Note: It is RECOMMENDED that an Entity reset be completed as soon as the reset command is received. Ensure that
the Entity can be normally accessed after the reset.


10.6.1.4 Port-Level Reset

Port-level reset restores the configuration of a specified port to its initial state at power-on. After the
reset, the port SHALL be reconfigured. A UBFM uses configuration management commands to write the
reset register of a port, thus achieving port-level reset.



unifiedbus.com                                                                                                354
10 Resource Management



When a port is in the reset state, it SHALL be described as unavailable in the routing table. If all ports of
a UBPU are in the reset state, the UBPU is inaccessible.


10.6.2 Error Handling

10.6.2.1 General Requirements

UB defines a series of error detection, handling, recording, and reporting mechanisms to support fault
locating and recovery. Error handling SHALL comply with the following principles:

      1.   Prevent errors from spreading to minimize their impact.
      2.   Correct errors within the shortest time possible.
      3.   Handle errors locally by type.
      4.   Record errors.


10.6.2.2 Error Types

10.6.2.2.1 Error Classification

This specification defines three classes of error events: A, B, and C.

      1.   In the case of a class-A error, the physical topology of the UB Fabric remains intact. The
           error can be traced to a specific transaction and does not affect the execution of other
           transactions. If an error occurs during the execution of a single SQE in an SQ, it can typically
           be reported through a CQ to software for handling.
      2.   In the case of a class-B error, the physical topology of the UB Fabric remains intact. The
           error can be traced to a specific Entity, TP channel, or Jetty (Entity-level, TP channel-level,
           or Jetty-level error) rather than a specific transaction. All resources of the unit in error need
           to be processed. Such errors can typically be reported to device drivers for handling.
      3.   Class-C errors occur on device- or port-level public resources. For example, if the physical
           topology of a UB Fabric is damaged, the error can typically be reported to UBFM for
           handling. Class-C errors are either correctable or uncorrectable.
           (1) Correctable errors can fix themselves without affecting services.
           (2) Uncorrectable errors cannot fix themselves and require software intervention.
                 Uncorrectable errors fall into two types: non-fatal uncorrectable error (NFUE) and fatal
                 uncorrectable error (FUE), with FUEs being more severe. Certain uncorrectable errors,
                 as detailed in Appendix D, can be set to NFUEs or FUEs through register configuration.

Devices SHALL be able to detect errors layer by layer from the bottom up and match the detected
errors to the classes defined in this specification.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                            355
10 Resource Management



10.6.2.2.2 List of Class-A Errors

                                   Table 10-12 List of class-A errors
 Error Code      Error Type      Description                      Error Class and Behavior
 A.1             Unsupported     The value of Opcode in an        Class A: The error is reported
                 Opcode          SQE is invalid.                  through a CQE, with Status being
                                                                  0x01 and Sub-Status being 0x0.
                                                                  If the error cannot be reported
                                                                  through a CQE, it can be
                                                                  downgraded to be reported as a
                                                                  class-B JFS Check Error.
 A.2.1           Local Length    The value of Length in an        Class A: The error is reported
                 Error           SQE or RQE is invalid.           through a CQE, with Status being
                                                                  0x02 and Sub-Status being 0x1.
                                                                  If the error cannot be reported
                                                                  through a CQE, it can be
                                                                  downgraded to be reported as a
                                                                  class-B JFS Check Error or JFR
                                                                  Check Error.
 A.2.2           Local Access    A permission verification        Class A: The error is reported
                 Error           error occurs during local        through a CQE, with Status being
                                 memory access.                   0x02 and Sub-Status being 0x2.
 A.2.3           Remote          The length of a response         Class A: The error is reported
                 Response        received by an initiator is      through a CQE, with Status being
                 Length Error    incorrect.                       0x02 and Sub-Status being 0x3.
 A.2.4           Local Data      A memory poison error            Class A: The error is reported
                 Poison          occurs when the local data is    through a CQE, with Status being
                                 read, or the received poison     0x02 and Sub-Status being 0x4.
                                 data needs to be written to
                                 the local memory.
 A.3.1           Remote          An initiator receives from the   Class A: The error is reported
                 Unsupported     target a check error on a        through a CQE, with Status being
                 Request         remote operation request.        0x03 and Sub-Status being 0x1.
                                 TAACK.RSPST = Completer
                                 Error (0x3), RSPINFO =
                                 Unsupported Request (0x1)
 A.3.2           Remote          An initiator receives from the   Class A: The error is reported
                 Access Abort    target an execution error on     through a CQE, with Status being
                                 a remote operation request.      0x03 and Sub-Status being 0x2.
                                 TAACK.RSPST = Completer
                                 Error (0x3), RSPINFO =
                                 Remote Abort (0x2)
 A.3.3           Remote Data     When an initiator reads          Class A: The error is reported
                 Poison          remote data, a poison error      through a CQE, with Status being
                                 occurs on the target.            0x03 and Sub-Status being 0x4.
 A.4             Transaction     The number of retries upon       Class A: The error is reported
                 Retry Counter   an RNR error at the              through a CQE, with Status being
                 Exceeded        transaction layer exceeds the    0x04 and Sub-Status being 0x0.
                                 threshold.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                       356
10 Resource Management



 Error Code      Error Type         Description                       Error Class and Behavior
 A.5             Transaction        A transaction response times      Class A: The error is reported
                 Ack Timeout        out.                              through a CQE, with Status being
                                                                      0x05 and Sub-Status being 0x0.


10.6.2.2.3 List of Class-B Errors

                                      Table 10-13 List of class-B errors
 Error Code      Error Type         Description                       Error Class and Behavior
 B.1.1           JFS Check          A JFS check error occurs.         Class B: A Jetty-level error
                 Error                                                asynchronous event is reported, with
                                                                      Event_Type being 0x1 and
                                                                      Sub_Type being 0x1.
 B.1.2           RSVD               Reserved                          -
 B.1.3           JFC Check          A JFC check error occurs.         Class B: A Jetty-level error
                 Error              A JFC overflows.                  asynchronous event is reported, with
                                                                      Event_Type being 0x1 and
                                                                      Sub_Type being 0x3.
 B.1.4           RSVD               Reserved                          -
 B.2.1           Transport          The number of retries at the      Class B: A TP channel-level error
                 Retry Counter      transport layer exceeds the       asynchronous event is reported, with
                 Exceeded           limit.                            Event_Type being 0x2 and
                 Error                                                Sub_Type being 0x1.
 B.2.2           Transport          A TP receiver receives a          Class B: A TP channel-level error
                 Unexpected         packet with the correct PSN       asynchronous event is reported, with
                 Opcode             but unexpected TPOpcode,          Event_Type being 0x2 and
                                    and discards the packet.          Sub_Type being 0x2.
 B.2.3           Transport PSN      A PSN does not match an           Class B: A TP channel-level error
                 and                MSN.                              asynchronous event is reported, with
                 Transaction                                          Event_Type being 0x2 and
                 MSN Mismatch                                         Sub_Type being 0x3.
 B.3             Entity Level       An error can only be traced       Class B: An Entity-level error
                 Error              to a specific Entity.             asynchronous event is reported, with
                                                                      Event_Type being 0x3 and
                                                                      Sub_Type being 0x0.


10.6.2.2.4 List of Class-C Errors

Class-C errors fall into two categories: port-level and device-level, depending on their scope of impact.
If an error cannot be traced to a specific port, it is reported as a device-level error, with the EL field in
the error message being set to 1; otherwise, it is reported as a port-level error, with the EL field in the
error message being set to 0.

Class-C errors typically occur at the physical, data link, and network layers, and those at the physical
and data link layers are all port-level errors. Such errors are recorded in either the Uncorrectable Error
Status or Correctable Error Status register.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                              357
10 Resource Management



                                  Table 10-14 List of class-C errors
 Error Code      Error Type      Description                           Error Class and Behavior
 C.1             RSVD            Reserved                              -
 C.2             Block Align     A block is unlocked.                  A correctable error is reported
                 Unlock                                                by default and is reported as a
                                                                       port-level error through an error
                                                                       message.
 C.3             Elasticity      An elasticity buffer overflows or     A correctable error is reported
                 Buffer          underflows.                           by default and is reported as a
                 Overflow/                                             port-level error through an error
                 Underflow                                             message.
 C.4             Loss of Lane-   The lane-to-lane deskew is            A correctable error is reported
                 to-Lane         unlocked.                             by default and is reported as a
                 Deskew                                                port-level error through an error
                                                                       message.
 C.5             AMCTL           An error occurs during AMCTL          A correctable error is reported
                 decode Error    decoding.                             by default and is reported as a
                                                                       port-level error through an error
                                                                       message.
 C.6             LTB CRC         An LTB CRC error occurs.              A correctable error is reported
                 Error                                                 by default and is reported as a
                                                                       port-level error through an error
                                                                       message.
 C.7             Link speed      An unexpected speed decrease          A correctable error is reported
                 reduce Error    event occurs.                         by default and is reported as a
                                                                       port-level error through an error
                                                                       message.
 C.8             Link width      An unexpected lane decrease           A correctable error is reported
                 reduce Error    event occurs.                         by default and is reported as a
                                                                       port-level error through an error
                                                                       message.
 C.9             Equalization    Equalization coarse tuning times      A correctable error is reported
                 Coarsetune      out.                                  by default and is reported as a
                 Timeout                                               port-level error through an error
                                                                       message.
 C.10            Equalization    EQ.Passive or EQ.Active times         A correctable error is reported
                 Finetune        out.                                  by default and is reported as a
                 Timeout                                               port-level error through an error
                                                                       message.
 C.11            Link width      Link width negotiation times out.     A correctable error is reported
                 negotiation                                           by default and is reported as a
                 Timeout                                               port-level error through an error
                                                                       message.
 C.12            LMSM            LMSM discovery times out.             A correctable error is reported
                 Discovery                                             by default and is reported as a
                 State Timeout                                         port-level error through an error
                                                                       message.
 C.13            RSVD            Reserved                              -




unifiedbus.com                                                                                        358
10 Resource Management



 Error Code      Error Type       Description                             Error Class and Behavior
 C.14            RSVD             Reserved                                -
 C.15            QDLWS            Dynamic lane increase or                A correctable error is reported
                 timeout          decrease times out.                     by default and is reported as a
                                                                          port-level error through an error
                                                                          message.
 C.16            Unsupported      An unsupported link width switch        A correctable error is reported
                 LW Switch        request is received.                    by default and is reported as a
                 REQ                                                      port-level error through an error
                                                                          message.
 C.17            RSVD             Reserved                                -
 C.18            LMSM Retrain     LMSM retrain state times out.           A correctable error is reported
                 state Timeout                                            by default and is reported as a
                                                                          port-level error through an error
                                                                          message.
 C.19            DL Retry ACK     Waiting for Retry_Ack_Set times         A correctable error is reported
                 Timeout          out for the DL sender.                  by default and is reported as a
                                                                          port-level error through an error
                                                                          message.
 C.20            DL Retry         Retransmissions of packets with         A correctable error is reported
                 Rollover         the same RcvPtr at the data link        by default and is reported as a
                                  layer exceed the limit.                 port-level error through an error
                                                                          message.
 C.21            DL Protocol      Protocol errors at the data link        An NFUE is reported by default
                 Error            layer, including:                       and can be reported as a port-
                                  Credit return times out.                level error through an error
                                                                          message.
                                  A returned ACK causes retry
                                  buffer overflow.
 C.22            DL Retry Error   The DL retransmission state             An NFUE is reported by default
                                  machine enters the error state.         and can be reported as a port-
                                                                          level error through an error
                                                                          message.
 C.23            RSVD             Reserved                                -
 C.24            Packet Length    A packet length check error             An NFUE is reported by default
                 Error            occurs:                                 and can be reported as a port-
                                  A receiver receives an oversized        level error through an error
                                  packet, that is, the total length of    message.
                                  the packet (including the header
                                  and payload) exceeds the upper
                                  limit defined in the protocol, or the
                                  payload length of the packet
                                  exceeds the transport-layer MTU.
                                  A receiver receives an undersized
                                  packet, that is, the total length of
                                  the packet (including the header
                                  and payload) is less than the
                                  theoretical lower limit defined in
                                  the protocol.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                           359
10 Resource Management



 Error Code       Error Type        Description                        Error Class and Behavior
 C.25             RSVD              Reserved                           -
 C.26             RSVD              Reserved                           -
 C.27             RSVD              Reserved                           -
 C.28             ICRC Check        An ICRC error occurs in the        An NFUE is reported by default
                  Error             receive direction.                 and can be reported as a port-
                                                                       level error through an error
                                                                       message.
 C.29             Receive Buffer    A receiver's receive buffer        An NFUE is reported by default
                  Overflow          overflows.                         and can be reported as a port-
                                                                       level error through an error
                                                                       message.
 C.30             Flow Control      After a sender receives CRD, the   An NFUE is reported by default
                  Overflow          total credit count exceeds the     and can be reported as a port-
                                    number of initialized credits,     level error through an error
                                    causing a flow control overflow    message.
                                    error.


10.6.2.3 Error Handling Policies

10.6.2.3.1 Handling Policies for Class-A Errors

Class-A errors reported through CQs are usually routed to programming interfaces for handling. Since
these errors can be traced to specific transactions, they can be handled using one of the following
policies, depending on the scenario.

        1.   Transaction retry at the software layer
        2.   Jetty reset
        3.   TP channel reset
        4.   Entity reset


10.6.2.3.2 Handling Policies for Class-B Errors

Class-B errors reported through EQs are usually routed to device drivers for handling. The device
drivers MAY adopt one of the following handling policies, depending on the error code.

        1.   Jetty reset
        2.   TP channel reset
        3.   Entity reset


10.6.2.3.3 Handling Policies for Class-C Errors

Class-C errors reported through error messages are usually routed to the local firmware for pre-
handling and then to UBFM for further handling. UBFM MAY perform port- or device-level reset,
depending on the severity of the errors.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                        360
10 Resource Management



10.6.2.4 Error Recording

10.6.2.4.1 General Requirements

The error recording function enables hardware to record detected errors to registers in a specified
format, thus helping software collect, locate, and correct errors. This function is designed based on the
following principles:

      1.   Record as much error information as possible for quick error locating and precise correction.
      2.   Define a unified and standard recording format.

Errors reported through EQs and CQs are recorded following the data format for the transaction layer.
Two error recording modes are as follows:

      1.   Error record
      2.   Error message queue




                                       Figure 10-62 Error recording


10.6.2.4.2 Error Record

Error records capture error information at the source where an error occurs. For details about the error
record registers, see the description about the ERR_RECORD register group in CFG0_CAP and
CFG0_PORT_CAP of configuration spaces in Appendix D.


10.6.2.4.3 Error Message Queue

Error message queues are usually located only on nodes where the error information processing
software is deployed, that is, the destination nodes to which errors are reported. These queues are
configured by the software. For details about the error message queue register, see Appendix D.2.4.




unifiedbus.com                                                                                        361
